hi I'm Joe Jennifer welcome to the fifth
volume of our creative tennis series the
innovative video series that integrates
live action with commentary now as we've
mentioned in previous volumes in this
series tennis is a game and should be
learned in the context of the game
itself rather than the old pattern of
first learning perfect form like ballet
dancers or figure skaters good form and
technique in tennis is helpful for
long-term improvement but it is not
essential if the initial goal is having
fun and just playing in fact many would
argue that emphasizing form over
everything else is a surefire way to
make someone lose interest in tennis
which is arguably the best lifetime
sport in the world after all tennis is a
game and games are meant to be played
now while considering this point
remember that hundreds of kids learn
competitive basketball by playing just
simple schoolyard hoops not much talk
about technique just a heavy dose of
hustle motivated by competitive fire on
the other hand proper technique
definitely does help tennis players
improve faster no question about it so
we need to agree on a logical plan the
one I'm going to propose in this video
is known as game based learning it goes
like this stage 1 is to play the actual
game or a modified version of the game
to initially motivate a player and help
them see if any part of their effort the
game itself might need some help stage 2
is that after the player is motivated to
play the game he or she will be equally
motivated to work on any limitations
that might keep them from playing at a
higher level stage 3 is to practice with
a game based drill or exercise that is
game like in nature to work on the
skills just developed in stage 2
and stage 4 is to once again play the
actual game of tennis to reinforce that
tennis is after all a game and a game
that is fun to play the goal of this
video is to prove that practice can be
innovative fun and productive instead of
repetitive tedious and possibly boring
we will share dozens of drills many of
which will be conceptual in nature from
each of these conceptual drills you
should be able to expand that single
drill concept into dozens and dozens of
additional games and exercises on your
own in the game based plan we just
described the drills in this video
primarily fit into stage 2 with some
action from stage 3 as well this volume
will be divided into four sections part
1 is adapting drills for beginners part
2 is game based technique correction
part 3 is fun at the net all about
volleying and part 4 is practicing shot
combinations now one final note is that
while watching this tape keep in mind
that game based learning applies to all
levels of players and almost every
single game and drill on this video can
be adapted to all levels of play by
moving players either in closer to the
net with modified equipment like foam
balls or by moving them back to the
baseline for normal play let's get
started